HTTP:- Hypertext Transfer Protocol:

-Set of rules for transferring files -- such as text, images, sound, video and other multimedia files -- over the web(application-layer protocol)
-HTTP follows a classical client-server model, with a client opening a connection to make a request, then waiting until it receives a response. 
-HTTP is a stateless protocol, meaning that the server does not keep any data (state) between two requests.
-runs on top of the TCP/IP suite of protocols, which forms the foundation of the internet.



working:

In addition to the web page files it can serve, a web server contains an HTTP daemon, a program that waits for HTTP
requests and handles them when they arrive. A web browser is an HTTP client that sends requests to servers. When the 
browser user enters file requests by either "opening" a web file by typing in a URL or clicking on a hypertext link, the browser 
builds an HTTP request and sends it to the Internet Protocol address (IP address) indicated by the URL. 
The HTTP daemon in the destination server  receives the request and sends back the requested file or files associated with the request.

To expand on this example, a user wants to visit something.com. 
computer sends ("GET" request)-------Using HTTP------>  to a server that hosts that address.




HTTPS use of :Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) 
                or Transport Layer Security (TLS) 
                    as a sublayer under regular HTTP application layering


 HTTPS ---->encrypts ----->decryptsuser HTTP page requests as well as the pages that are returned by the web server.



 HTTP messages are requests or responses. 
 Client devices submit HTTP requests ------> servers, 
        <---------HTTP responses


 Each HTTP request contains encoded data, with information such as:

 1.The specific version of HTTP followed. HTTP and HTTP/2
 2.A URL
 3.An HTTP method 
 4.HTTP request headers
 5.An HTTP body -user forms -- username/password logins, short responses and file uploads 


HTTP responses:

 1.HTTP status code
 2.HTTP response headers
 3.An HTTP body (optional)


HTTP status codes
In response to HTTP requests, servers often issue response codes, indicating the request is being processed:

1.200 OK. This means that the request, such as GET or POST, worked and is being acted upon.
2.300 Moved Permanently. This response code means that the URL of the requested resource has been changed permanently.
3.401 Unauthorized. The client, or user making the request of the server, has not been authenticated.
4.403 Forbidden. The client's identity is known but has not been given access authorization.
5.404 Not Found. This is the most frequent error code. It means that the URL is not recognized or the resource at the location does not exist.
6.500 Internal Server Error. The server has encountered a situation it doesn't know how to handle.


https://whatis.techtarget.com/definition/HTTP-Hypertext-Transfer-Protocol
